Hey everybody welcome back to Boost Your
Income with Bootstrap for WordPress.
This lecture is called
How My Fear of Building
a Custom WordPress Website Cost Me
$24,000.
[MUSIC]
All right, so let me tell you a little
story about me and my career.
So basically when I started building
websites, I was fresh out of college.
I just learned how to design and
develop websites.
So I would design a website in Photoshop
and then I would slice up that design and
turn it into an HTML CSS and
JavaScript website.
I knew a little PHP so
I would make it a little dynamic.
Just to save me some time I would have
some global headers, footers, and
sidebars.
Maybe a dynamic date.
Maybe even a contact form.
I knew a little bit.
I was pretty good at what I
knew which was HTMLs, CSS,
JavaScript and PHP, and
designing in Photoshop.
And I was pretty good at getting clients,
too.
I would get clients that would want me to
build their websites, and it was great.
I was fresh out of college, and I was
looking for some work, and so as a side
job, I would take on a couple clients and
do a few HTML and CSS websites.
And the budgets save me
anywhere from $500 to $1,000.
Maybe the biggest one I would do would
be $1200, and that was pushing it.
Because I was just starting, and
it was just a side business.
And I was looking for a job,
and I eventually got a job
at a full time studio.
So it was, it was kinda just on the side.
And I didn't have expert level skill,
but I was pretty good at the business
aspect of it and getting work and
delivering pretty good quality websites.
However I started getting
requests from clients,
my current clients and some new clients.
Word of mouth started kind of happening.
I started getting some new referrals
from my older clients, and
they'd say I want a website.
I want like a website where I can update
it myself really easily, some blog posts.
I want to be able to add
certain features and
do that stuff myself,
can you do that for me?
And then I knew from my experience
in college and from obviously
working as a freelancer,
freelance web designer and web developer.
I knew that that meant I
needed to know WordPress or
other content management systems.
But I knew WordPress was the most popular.
So I didn't know how to do it, and it
scared me because I remember at one point
I looked into it and
was like holly molly, I can't do that.
That's way too advanced for me,
I don't want to learn that.
It's scary.
So I'm just not gonna touch it.
And so I get these requests and I would
just have to say, sorry I'm too busy.
I can't take on that project right now.
But really all I was saying was,
I don't know how to do that and
I don't wanna take on a project
that is gonna stress me out and
I'm gonna under deliver or
not be able to deliver at all.
That makes me look bad.
But I realized I was just losing
out on work, and lots of work,
cuz I started getting requests all
the time, on a regular basis every month,
I got people saying I'd love for
you to do my website.
My friend or my colleague, you did
their website before and they loved it.
I'd really love to work with you.
I just want it to have x, y, and
z, and x, y, and
z is usually update my website myself.
Add certain features myself and
have a blog, or something like that.
And I was, I just couldn't do that.
And I was afraid.
My fear got in the way of me
taking my business to a new level.
And in hindsight when I look at that,
the amount of money that I lost out for,
it was probably about a year where I just
avoided WordPress projects altogether.
Was I would say in
the ballpark of $24,000 and
the reason why I say that is because I was
working before in the smaller budget range
like I would say average $1,000 websites,
but WordPress is totally different when
you're developing custom WordPress
websites even as a beginner
WordPress developer,
you shouldn't be charging any
less than a couple of grand for
a WordPress project, because it's
a lot of work that goes into it.
There's a lot of details.
You're delivering high value,
and the reason why you should be charging
higher is because they're not gonna
be coming back to you as often because
they can update the website themselves.
When you do just static HTML sites,
they gotta keep coming back to you and
say, I have a new team
member in my dental clinic.
I need you to add a new page or
can you add this article?
Or I wanna add more pictures.
Here are the pictures, can you add that?
And then you, they keep coming back to
you so you charge them your hourly rate.
And it is an ongoing sort of maintenance.
But with WordPress, they can add pages,
they can add blog posts,
they can add widgets, they can add
contact forms, they can update,
they can delete stuff, they can do
a whole bunch of stuff by themselves,
so that's work that you're not getting.
So for them it's incredibly valuable.
So you should be charging more,
they're just worth way more.
And 2,000, that's at the bottom end.
So as a beginner,
I estimated that I would be a beginner
WordPress developer by that if I
were accepting those projects.
And I would probably be
charging about $2,000.
So that's $2,000 every month
that I was missing out on.
Which means $24,000 in a year.
I totally missed out on.
And I realized that's not,
that's not gonna work for me.
If I want to grow as a business person,
as an entrepreneur,
I want to grow in my career.
If I want to spread my expertise and
grow my client base if
I wanna make a living off of this,
I need to be doing Wordpress projects.
And at this point, I would say 95%
of the freelance work that I get
is WordPress,
just exclusively WordPress, and
other content management systems
that are more advanced, so
when I committed to learning WordPress I
boosted my income significantly.
I made way more money every single
month to the point now where
if I just didn't do WordPress projects
I probably wouldn't be able to have
a smooth running, successful freelance
business because when I look at my
invoices most of them are WordPress or
WordPress related projects,
whether that's updating WordPress site or
developing a totally custom
CMS driven with WordPress,
so I don't want you to make the same
mistake if your at the beginning of your
career and your getting emails saying
like, can you develop a website for me and
I wanna be able to do this and
that and that's for sure WordPress or
I could that should be done in
WordPress and you have to decline it or
send it to a friend or pay a friend to
do it, you're missing out on money.
You're missing out on a couple grand,
three grand,
four grand even depending on how
big the site is for a project.
And if you're getting regular requests,
you're missing out on thousands of dollars
and you could be incredibly successful
making a lot of money building custom
WordPress websites, so
don't make the mistake that I did.
Lean WordPress let me show you.
I'm showing you from an angle
that this can make you money.
I'm not just showing you
from WordPress is great,
its fun to learn, and
you can amp up your development skills.
No.
That's not what I'm trying to show you.
I'm trying to show you learning this,
this is gonna rock your world,
this can improve your career greatly or it
can allow you to start a brand new career,
and that the angle I'm taking with this.
So the amount of money that your paid for
this course is nothing at all,
it's pennies compared to the amount of
money that you will be be able to make
with the skill that I'm giving you.
So high value is what
I'm going to give you.
All right, see you in the next lecture.
Where I'm gonna drive the point home
about static versus dynamic websites.
If you're still not convinced
that dynamic WordPress
driven websites is better
to just hand code HTML.
Static stuff,
then I'm gonna drive that home to make you
fully understand what you should be doing.
Static versus dynamic.
See you there.
[MUSIC]